thanks very much for coming to the
summit yesterday we had a fantastic day
and we were about to have a another
great day today so reflecting on on
yesterday we had a number of fantastic
talks really talking about kind of the
the president of pinning services and
what groups are doing and what they're
thinking of doing and in which
directions to head and what today's
about we talked a bit about making this
about the future and thinking about the
opportunities that are gonna come for
services during 2020 and potentially
2021 a number of these are related and
so some of the things that that I'm
gonna cover now in this in the in this
talk are kind of setting up the the
other talks so I mean I motivate a
little bit the need for pinning api's
and then we will hear more about kind of
how those might be integrated into
applications and then and then we'll
also see hear about potential Falcone
integrations and power gain great so
quick motivation on on why why there's
interesting opportunities at the moment
so first off 2020 and 2021 is kind of a
critical period there are lots of key
applications and projects being built
and interest improving the ecosystem as
a whole so this this means all kinds of
developer tools are arriving that are
they're transforming how applications
and users of ipfs end up using the
system so so this means that in this
time period
as new developer tools are being made or
new systems that are built either under
ipfs or over activists or things like
Liberty improving or things like Falcone
and so on all of these developer tools
and systems coming are changing the
nature of how people store data and move
data without DFS and so it's a it's
pretty interesting time for
infrastructure providers in in the ffs
ecosystem because it means that there's
there's more opportunities the product
landscape is changing and there's
there's suddenly things that weren't
possible before are now possible or
suddenly new new
abilities are unlocked for for
infrastructure providers and so this is
you can think of it as as for example
noting the the release of things like
buckets from textile where now we can we
can see that those kinds of things
getting integrated into into other
services so we heard the announcement
yesterday about about integrations into
into some applications but this is
something that many planning services
could do right so many tech services in
script could now offer replication
replication over buckets this was just
one example there are a lot of different
kind of superlatives emerging in the
ecosystem that'll improve how how people
use use of EFS the second reason is that
the ecosystem is growing very fast right
now so there's a lot of momentum a lot
of applications being built a lot of
groups are coming and so that means that
all those application builders who are
you know primarily interested in
building their apps can would love to be
able to use just reliable infrastructure
that they can count on to not have to
not have to figure out a lot of stuff
themselves meaning they might want to do
things like replicate their their their
pins or make them available in certain
regions of the world and all that kind
of stuff and just having services that
are really high quality or they can they
can rely on supports that ecosystem
growth and then kind of helps Excel
accelerated what important point here is
that the the apps that you support drive
your success so as an for social
providers your success is kind defined
by the applications you support and
similarly the success of those
applications and the services that
you're making drive the success of the
project and of the community so you can
think of all the ffs community is super
aligned with with your success and in
the more that that you succeed a service
provider the more of the products is
these so we all want you to build really
successful businesses and and we want
you to support great applications and
that means that the people contributing
to ipfs and so on want to help you be as
successful as you can be so there's all
kinds of things like building better
features to the tools or building new
kinds of things or identifying
opportunities that you might be
going after that could be could turn
into a successful successful opportunity
one interesting note here is because
this is an ecosystem undergoing a lot of
growth and because I people's is still
very very nearly like relative to the
mainstream right so we still have not
yet across the chasm to the to the
broader and mainstream mainstream world
there said just a huge market available
for adoption it means that there there
isn't that much competition meaning the
the ecosystem is expanding and so all
parties working together to to expand
the how ipfs works and its use and so on
will just be a bunch better strategy and
more successful thing then then kind of
competing competing internally and we've
seen there's a lot of a lot of the
infrastructure providers in the fs
ecosystem help each other have calls our
super collaborative shared lessons share
code and all that kind of stuff because
the services are actually differentiated
enough across a number of dimensions
that that and because them is growing
such that there's not yet like a like an
intense competition world the last thing
that I wanted to to wrap into into today
was that I frequently get asked how
Falcon will fit into the picture and how
painting services can participate in in
that in that ecosystem and how fat when
I profess will interrupt and so on so I
wanted to create an opportunity today to
to discuss some of that and and wrap
some of the opportunities that can come
out of that along these other ones that
are kind of less specific
great so so with that let's let's dive
in I kind of Brooke Brooke it apart into
three three different sections number
one is use case specialization number
two is expanding product offerings and
three three sparkling and I'm gonna be
sprinkling recommendations along the way
so I'm not gonna have kind of like a
recommendation section at the end I'll
rather kind of be mentioning mentioning
recommendations here and there
so for Yusuke specialization we talked a
little bit about this yesterday but
there's a number of different different
kinds of use cases that that I think
this is really can be really good for
either it's already good for or is very
close to being good for and we think or
I think that pinning services and
insurgent infrastructure providers will
end up creating a much better product
and actually get a significant user base
by thinking carefully about those use
cases and working against them meaning
understanding how the users of those use
cases actually are trying to to use ipfs
and what what they need from from their
infrastructure providers so for example
somebody making web 3 application their
knees are going to be very different
than somebody trying to to publish or
distribute video and so thinking about
those use cases and thinking about how
your IP is or what your performance has
to change to match those needs will help
you target like these different
different kinds of markets so let's dive
into into some examples so you know we
talked about well what three AppData
before so this includes all of the front
ends of applications or or the actual
user generated data within them so think
of in an audience here as an example
think of the playlists the the records
about the songs the play the views and
all that kind of stuff so all of that
data is structured as in a way that you
can now replicate directly in a fake
service and this is for the most part
the majority of the of the pending
service focuses around us another
another example of this is pretty pretty
similar but you can think of web 3 apps
that are primarily just a very light
front-end around some some aetherium
smart contractors or some other contract
in another another blockchain where you
want a smooth user experience and so you
give people a UI associated with the
contract so that UI is is
in the browser loaded over IP FS and
then making making calls directly to to
aetherium through meta mask or something
like that and got in the common the come
on path right now is people using a
pinning service which eventually kind of
backs up to to some regular cloud like
AWS and so on and a lot of these folks
these that creators would prefer to get
their their data stored in a blockchain
because it's kind of critical to their
contracts to have the whole thing fully
decentralized and so a lot of the
ecosystem growth that we're seeing is in
the web through space so this is kind of
like a well well-run use case I think
we're covering this one this one pretty
well there's probably still things to
improve there but but overall this this
is well done well some of the stuff that
I think we haven't focused on that much
but I think our present really good
opportunities for for finding services
are things like developer assets so
think of how might we how might we store
or and replicate all kinds of developer
assets for use in in the production of
software I and in tune the pinning
servers to be able to back up all of
that kind of stuff today people tend to
use github for a number of things and
tend to use some package manager
registries and so on but there's also a
lot of stuff that doesn't
can't easily go on there or we're using
a press in conjunction with those things
can can improve things so we we've heard
about the example from from kind of
using using a professor move around
containers and and speeding up the
distribution at data center so all of
those use cases are going to need some
tooling improvement and some performance
improvements to really flesh them out
and and this is where having it for
providers that are focused in these use
cases will will help understand them
very well and be able to help the people
building applications on this actually
have a really good good experience and
yeah we I'm gonna suggest also things
like BOTS are a good a good example for
if infrastructure providers where you
can run run a bot that I can will do
some some processing or pinning or
something and those bots can be tightly
integrated with with some platform like
github or get lab or slack or things
like that
and when we think about developer asses
I think of like all of the various
different static assets that you might
not push into into get think of think of
all the binaries and and the bills the
intermediate kind of artifacts that are
created think of packages think of
containers think of VMs all of that kind
of stuff and being able to distribute it
with with ipfs would be really really
sweet but it but again it doesn't need
some some kind of infrastructure tooling
to improve then there's things like
thinking about cncd pipelines where all
of the logs of as he sed service could
be could be move move this way or
archived in ipfs and then there are
things like integrations with with
larger data tools so a lot of software
and sub involving large data pipelines
and in those cases a lot of the
traditional tools or things like it just
don't work and so you would like to be
able to version version control a lot of
a lot of these larger pieces of data and
back them up somewhere but but that kind
of tooling is not not very well fleshed
out things like get all of fats and
others exists but but they they don't
fit a bunch of those use cases that well
alright moving on to video so a pinning
service oriented towards towards video
would would probably switch would really
require a different set of performance
guarantees so you'll probably have much
higher bandwidth usage and we'd have to
focus on very low latency delivery of
the first few first few bites and then
kind of after that just making sure that
there's kind of like a reliable
treatment and and so on and that might
might just look a bit different than
than some of the other use cases also
this might just be a lot of data so most
of the pinning services that that that I
know about are not yet storing large
quantities of video and the moment that
an application is considering storing
large quantities of video then price
becomes a really big deal and so it's a
possibility there that um focusing on
the this use case would require kind of
thinking about the cost model and
different way streaming is a
particularly interesting use case we're
thinking of infrastructure for Strings
it's a whole different different ball
as well when think about live video and
transcoding and and storing all these
informated out of artifacts and serving
them that might be interesting but also
it could be relaying so if there's a
kind of a peer-to-peer stream of people
watching watching some video having
being able to kind of hire relators of
all this traffic that could be a very
interesting interesting infrastructure
opportunity then there there are things
like large datasets things like public
datasets you know large enterprise data
and so on a lot of these use cases look
very similar and they're they're not
they're not that hard to do with the
tooling that is already has but there
there is kind of a sophisticated set of
constraints for when for the different
kinds of domains so for example machine
learning Orient's around certain kinds
of datasets with certain kinds of sizes
and so on which might be very different
from biology and so there might be some
some kind of even within this use case
kind of some some like sub use cases to
think about and different users and
different different experiences required
to to kind of give a really compelling
compelling experience one of the things
that I've been thinking about alongside
this is that perhaps a really really
good way to to connect the work that
were that we're doing in FS with all the
archive stuff and in I thought going
with a with Falcone discover which which
launched yesterday you'll get to there's
a lighting talk video today about it
would be to to just create bounties for
finding really good valuable data sets
that people want on on ipfs and then
just funding the as a bounty funding the
the backing up of it to a pinning
service so imagine we figure out some
some dates as we figure out what it
would cost to pin them on on on one of
the pinning services and then we just
put a bounty out for for actually
processing that data set and putting it
into the pinning service for for say six
months or twelve Masterson
that and yeah so I'm very likely gonna
do this so so if you're interested in
this kind of problem or you've been
wanting to kind of hunt hunt for some
days that's an ad them typing past the
fine I come to me we talked yesterday a
bit about games in game distribution
platforms this is another use case that
I think is is kind of ripe there's still
a lot of tooling that the money to get
built built out for it for different
components but we're now at the point
where we're distributing game assets
could be done much faster much faster
with that because especially thinking
about all the different kind of
bandwidth utilization that you can get
in kind of the the same kind of
peer-to-peer Victorian sort of way you
know in the old days
Blizzard used to use by trying to
distribute patches and and large large
software updates I'm not sure if they
still do but it certainly is extremely
difficult to use a lot of that tooling
if you're not familiar with it something
like I professed gonna make this
dramatically easier and better but this
is going to require some some thinking
about the whole distribution of flow
thank you think of a bit of a bit of it
like a package manager but um
the if people are interested in games
and I think fess and this might be like
a very interesting direction to head
because these kinds of use case has
generated a huge amount of data and so
forth for a pinning service that kind of
specializes in this direction they might
find like a very large large market
there it might require a large list in
terms of developer tooling but this
would be potentially really interesting
there are a number of companies around
the block chain space already building
very high quality games and and I think
that they they are still kind of
building a normal web 2 oriented
pathways because they don't know that
they can rely on one kind of
infrastructure providers to sort out
their data needs so this this is I think
it's a it's a pretty interesting
opportunity I think potentially to very
good use case use cases to to start with
would be
decentraland and crypto voxels if if a
pending service wants to go and backup
all of their data
and kind of do a bit of the work with
them to to figure out how to structure
it how to back it up how to pin it and
so on then then it would start proving
out the use case and then maybe some
blog posts after that a lot more games
and I start doing this another
interesting thing that we've seen is
that there are there are a number of
browsers that are that are starting to
add IPO support but in some cases
especially in mobile they're opting to
start with using a gateway for for
resolution instead of putting a note in
the browser itself this probably for
resource requirements and so on which
makes it a lot of sense in this case
we've we've heard that it would be
extremely useful to be able to have
infrastructure providers that can just
run these gateways for them and our
experience in doing so and can run them
with extremely high availability so this
is I think an extremely useful
opportunity for folks that are
interested in that kind of service all
right so that's the set for for the use
case specialization segment there's of
course more use cases but this is just
kind of a flavor of how a pending
service might might kind of orient in
one direction and go after a specific
kind of sub market and and and help out
there I do think that right now a lot of
there's a lot of latent interest but
those groups
can't use the tooling that's there yet
and so there's a little bit of bridging
to do there and then that would unlock a
lot of a lot of data that I use
so right so in terms of expanding kind
of the product offering so that so this
is it still kind of a very general use
case and less about putting data and
more about doing other kinds of things
in in ipfs so this might include things
like manage notes like being able to
easily deploy networks of nodes doing
all of the different kind of like
multi-region support if somebody wants
to have nodes in a bunch of different
regions in the world figuring out all
the metrics and then Analytics to be
able to present all that stuff to two
users really well similar to this being
able to deploy private networks where
people want to maintain a completely
separate network and run an application
in a separate way that is a particular
use case that a number of groups its
interested in and so far those groups
have had to do it all for themselves so
they haven't been able to to work with
an infrastructure provider but did that
mean so a team could this is an
opportunity for for some applications to
want to head in that direction and this
would require some knowledge around how
to do the network isolation how to how
to set the the private network key and
so on and also how to run the different
pieces that needed to make the network
work which means bootstrapper escape
potentially gateways relays and so on
you could also go in the direction of
setting up traffic relays there's a lot
of nodes in the network that are behind
extremely aggressive Nats and firewalls
and getting to those is is it's fairly
hard the best strategy around this is
relays
we don't really traffic by default
inside of ifs because that would be like
a pretty bad bandwidth usage for for
users but this is something that could
become a service right and so we could
totally see services springing up where
I used or I profess hires the traffic
really as a service and just moves all
of their traffic through and kind of
exposes a public a public address
so much that there's some kind of a need
for better statin analytics around how
the network is operating so if
somebody's has a lot of content and they
want it to be to be rideable actually
understanding how well distributed over
the network it is and and so on isn't
useful set of features so parties that
have a lot of data and want to make a
lot of it available might opt to you to
use services that provide really high
quality experience here then there's
also think thinking about developer
tooling for ipfs developers specifically
which means think of CI a and C D
pipelines in a peer-to-peer the deal
with all the peer-to-peer stuff that
might be different so things like
configuring the network in a specific
way either connecting to private
networks that are isolated or connecting
to the public network run run tests
being able to have like a we just
released test ground as a project and
that project is this large-scale
peer-to-peer lab kind of kind of
software a lot of groups have mentioned
that they would be interested in running
it and using it this is an opportunity
for an infrastructure provider that
would just like to wrap this up in kind
of like a one-click deploy for for a
whole set of test Suites that's some
stuff that we we don't have battles to
to work on but it's really available and
that's run its wholly open sources or
anybody can can can do this I think
that's that's kind of a small business
like Travis setting there - for somebody
to create I think everywhere across the
stack a stronger focus and an analytics
and metrics and visualizing of the of
this would be extremely useful as a
differentiator a lot of people want to
be able to to know what's going on in
their nodes and especially in some cases
being able to get alerts when certain
kinds of things happen so certain kind
of Swift conditions on the network
causing some kind of behavior
people would like to be able to to be
alerted on those
those cases and then then of course
there's there's all kinds of data
processing that people want to do before
pinning so this they start looking into
looking like how important kinds of
files or or data sets integrations to to
other data processing tools and systems
there's a ton of things out there that
uh that that are in different domains of
data science and being able to kind of
integrate with those two lanes it's
something that might make a painting
services and much more useful service
being able to do do to do the kind of
computation that so there's a way of
using I profess were you can start
thinking of the code of the data ask
code and think of running
transformations over over the ability
graphs so being able to have a a mo
model where you could do things like
MapReduce over at confess or for things
of that nature
that might be a really interesting
platform and so that's how it starts
moving away from from finding services
and starts going into kind of kind of
lambda style computing and so on but it
might be like a pretty interesting
interesting service and related to that
there's there's a ton of need lately in
the machine learning community for for
data processing pipelines especially
once I take into account you know
artifact memorization where where you're
doing these super expensive computations
and you would like to not rerun them
again if you can and continue addressing
gives you the ability ability to do this
so so there's some there's a few
services out there called that are
trying to do this i BFS could be an
extremely extremely useful addition to
this and and so that's something I hope
any service might my optical another
part of this is starting to explore
different kinds of access controls so
right now most most depending services
work in a way that just pinning
something tends to mean anybody can can
view it a number you just want to do to
provide different kinds of access
controls where maybe they just want to
want to pin it for their own use or
or maybe they want to publish it and
serve it to a subset of users but but
not pay for the traffic from everybody
or the content is encrypted but they
really need the content to be decrypted
in a gateway so kind of having the
decrypting gateways that um that had
been experimented with I think textile
and others have have made these being
able to kind of have that that as a
service is something that uh that some
groups might might want and we talked
about collaborative pins a bit yesterday
but it strikes me that this is one this
is one thing that um that a lot of
groups in mainstream data science would
really care about there's there's a lot
of very large datasets where people
would love to be able to share the costs
of storing and distributing these
because they don't in a lot of cases
just kind of having community funded
registries of data would be would be an
extremely useful usual thing to do and
so this starts veering away from from
from just broad pinning and starts
turning into kind of like a github for
for data this is something that the
number of groups have have talked about
over the years as wanting but what's
really missing is a group that can
shoulder like the very large quantities
of data involved you know datasets with
many terabytes in size each and then be
able to kind of do all of the all the
card file distribution work to to to
make it all work all right
so the third you know category of of
opportunities is around PowerPoint and
for that I asked pooja to to give a an
interest who to popcorn for us and so
I'm gonna hand off to pooja in the
moment and then you know I'll pick back
up and go from there which are you ready
awesome so hi everyone I'm really
excited to be here talking about final
coin at the ipfs think something I think
there's some really awesome integration
opportunities and so I wanted to start a
little bit by setting the stage for what
sorts of use cases that file coin is
aiming to solve and then one I think is
going to tie together and see how
violent fits into the
larger ecosystem and then we'll dive
into some more like concrete
opportunities for how to integrate by
open and depending services and other
service providers over the next few
months so I'm not sure how many of you
have been following the Falcon roadmap
very closely but we're about to launch
me met in just a couple months and
already the file Queen ecosystem is
vibrant and thriving there are tons of
opportunities across the stack at the
research layer there are opportunities
for application developers service
providers is just probably what's most
relevant to our conversation today and
really for anyone who cares about
efficiently priced geographically
distributed storage so I'd like to start
by talking about why file coin exists
what problems are we trying to solve and
which use cases do we want to enable I'd
like to focus in especially on some of
the core features and file point that
make these use cases even stronger and
then I'll touch on where we are as a
project community and ecosystem and then
hand it back to one file queen's mission
is to create a decentralized efficient
and robust foundation for humanities
information over the past several
decades we've seen numerous examples of
how centralized storage infrastructures
can sometimes be brittle and
untrustworthy solutions for storing
humanity's most valuable resource for
just information while coin aims to be
this resilient and trustworthy
foundation for all of humanity's
knowledge and we're getting there by
solving a few key problems that exist
with centralized storage infrastructure
today so first file coin is a
decentralized cloud file qin creates a
marketplace where storage clients and
providers can interact directly and thus
file point eliminates the reliance on
reliance on a few centralized cloud
storage providers and instead creates a
decentralized cloud file coin users
retain full control over their data so
you get to make your own decisions on
what happens to the data that you store
on the file coin network file coins in
efficient storage market users on the
network get to set the prices that
they're willing to pay and accept for
storage so instead of having to pay the
prices that are set by corporate pricing
depart
users have the freedom to enter into
economic contracts that are most
affordable for them one thing that's
really unique about file coin is this
feature of verifiable storage so file
Queen requires that storage providers
repeatedly generate cryptographic proofs
of storage to verify that when they say
that they're storing your data they
actually are these verifiable tamper
proof cryptographic proofs enable file
point to actually work as a
decentralized protocol that also has
data storage guarantees so you no longer
need to trust an intermediary
organization to know that your data is
being stored safely that's a core
feature that is enabled by the protocol
and lastly file Queen puts the Zeta
bytes of idle storage capacity that
exists in the world to work there there
are massive amounts of storage capacity
that are sitting around unused in data
centers basements and hard drives all
over the world and this amount of data
is growing every single day file Queens
a marketplace that allows this storage
capacity to be hired by customers
creating efficient use for an otherwise
underutilized asset the file Queen
protocol embeds a number of features to
solve these problems and to ultimately
move towards this mission of creating a
decentralized efficient and robust
foundation and storage layer for
Humanity's information and although the
network and ecosystem are still very
early we've already seen file points
start to generate positive impact on a
number of really important use cases and
that's what I'd like to talk about next
one example is our work with the Shoah
foundation for the last year we've been
working with usc's Shoah foundation
to store the world's largest genocide
testimonial archive on the file coin
network there are people in the world
today who deny that certain atrocities
and genocides like the Holocaust were
ever committed the show of foundation's
mission is to develop empathy
understanding and respect by sharing
these stories of testimony more broadly
the visual History Archive
as it's called includes testimony from
more than 55,000 survivors across nine
genocides in 62 countries and it's more
than nine petabytes worth of recordings
that will ultimately be stored on the
file coin mean that some of this data is
all
being stored on a file quintet set the
show Foundation chose to work with file
point because of our use of these
tamper-proof cryptographic proofs of
storage file Queen's proofs allow users
to trust that the videos that they're
viewing haven't been tampered with that
they're the original truth another
example comes from our work
collaborating with a number of
scientific and cultural institutions to
store valuable massive datasets on file
coin it's kind of staggering but I
recently learned that we store we
generate more than two-and-a-half
quintillion bytes of data every single
day for context this is something like
more than 2000 shipping containers full
of 870 megabytes cd-roms it includes 294
billion emails 64 billion whatsapp
messages 500 million tweets but it also
includes useful scientific data such as
climate science reports disease tracking
maps connected card coordinates and more
while much of this data is stored and
preserved it's also the case that
millions of gigabytes worth of useful
scientific data and other types of data
are routinely discarded every day and if
I look when we believe that this is a
lost opportunity for our society um if
stored and analyzed these data could
yield really precious you know and
priceless research and discoveries we
won't file point to be the home for this
sort of important information so over
the last few months and one alluded to
this earlier we've been working with
several institutions to preserve open
access data we've already begun
onboarding petabytes worth of data onto
the file point test set and we have a
pipeline for hundreds of petabytes of
data to follow on the file claiming that
we just announced this project called
file Queen discovery yesterday on the
file claim blog and we'll have someone
doing a lightning talk on this project
as well later today the last example
that I want to highlight comes from
storing web 3 app and user data on file
coin and again one touched on this a
little bit earlier but I wanted to talk
specifically about the file point angle
in this use case so file coin we think
is an especially good a solution for DAP
projects in the ipfs ecosystem and more
broadly most about three applications
today split their storage across a
number of solutions for example web 3
photo sharing applications and I've
grabbed
an example from textile photos here they
stored their business logic on networks
like aetherium their front-end
applications on IP FS and their user
data either an IP FS or a web to service
provider like Amazon Web Services the
idea is that with file coin these types
of applications can store all of the
relevant data directly on the file coin
network a crypto native web 3 solution
direct bridges from smart contract
platforms to file pointer also already
in the works and this should make that
data storage on file point even more
seamless in the near term seeing this
type of real-world impact of the file
coin project is especially mode 8
motivating for me and I personally just
so excited to find more of these use
cases and see ways that file point can
uniquely serve them but even with some
of these early use cases I can already
start to see this future or a file point
is really gonna change the way that we
interact with data just day-to-day the
file point community is kind of in a
Cambrian explosion period right now
we've finally got all of the core
protocol and research development work
done and we're starting to see real
businesses and applications and powerful
user experiences being built on the
network so this is the next part of the
discussion that I'd like to get to where
where's five-point today as a project
community and ecosystem as I mentioned
earlier the core tools and building
blocks are now in place and so we're
starting to see lots of activity with
developers miners and storage clients or
other types of users the file cream
project is active development across 200
repos including node implementations
file kind proofs developer tooling and
AP is and also many community products
and applications since launching our
first development networks in early 2019
we've seen our open source developer
community grow from around 20 active
contributors to more than 1,200 total
cumulative contributors today and again
the the network is still pre-launch so I
think we just have a really awesome
developer community which is really
great for all of these new applications
and services that we are starting to see
and hope to see over the next several
years there are currently four file
point node implementations that are
placing the finishing touches on their
implementations these are go file coin
load
Forrest and foo hun and they're written
in go rust and C++ at the web 3 summit
last year we launched the file coin dev
Grants Program to provide some light
ecosystem support to communities two
teams that were building applications
and tooling on file coin and today we've
run three waves of the Deborah's program
awarding around forty five grants and
total one and a half million dollars to
teams within the ecosystem we're
currently accepting applications
actually for dev grants wave four and
you can learn more about the program on
the web site we launched the first
feature complete file coin test net in
December 2019 and this has been really
exciting since since you know just a few
months ago we've seen this network grow
from zero petabytes to almost five
petabytes of storage on the network and
there's almost 35 but petabytes a
storage that's waiting to join the
network there are also hundreds of
miners that are actively participating
every day on the file coin test net and
this is really interesting because you
know these are serious organizations
with significant funding and resources
they're whole you know businesses that
are already starting to be built on the
mining side on file coin and these teams
are really committing hard so we've seen
actually in total something like I think
thousands of active miners that have
participated on the test and over the
last few months this is not an
incentivized Network so all of this
energy leads us to have strong
expectations that the network is going
to grow by several orders of magnitude
in size when we actually launched the
main net in general we've seen a
tremendous amount of enthusiasm within
the velcroing mining community some
miners have started to announce on you
know places like Twitter pretty publicly
that they have exabytes of storage
capacity that are waiting to join form a
net launch file coin meetups continue to
take place around the worlds weekly and
there are also miners that have posted
videos of racks of storage space that
are ready to go for a file coin lunch
there's a video here I'll skip playing
it today but we can share out the slides
and it's like a really fun video to
watch as someone who works more in the
product side
I'm currently most excited by all of the
developer tooling and applications that
have started to build on the file
clinical system and building on final
coin is now easier than ever we have
comprehensive documentation there are
numerous API library
development-oriented test networks
hosted nodes and all sorts of other
developer infrastructure that are
necessary to easily build on file coin
several teams have already started using
this developer platform to build
community friendly tooling so some
examples of this are block explorers by
things like IP FS force ipfs Union and D
Tech there's a self hosted web wallet
that was actually built by openwork labs
and Jonathan from openwork labs gave a
talk and I think a demo of this
yesterday also other wallets mobile sim
mobile wallet by a community team as
well I think my believe is I'd be a best
force this is a chain visualizer built
by AE studio and this is kind of a
preview of a dashboard that's going to
be built for mining nodes built by a
team called node Factory um this this is
a product I'm actually really excited
about and you're going to hear a lot
more about it today Andrew from textile
presented on threads yesterday and he's
going to be presenting with Aaron from
the textile team on power gate
specifically but textile is a team that
we've all heard about a lot they've just
done incredible work and that PFS is by
oakland ecosystems over the last few
years and more recently they've been
building a suite of tools to make
development on file coin seamless and
intuitive textiles power gate is an
easy-to-use interface to store and
retrieve data from file point and it
also exposes a really intuitive
developer API and there's a very
interesting use case for pinning
services directly which I think a number
of us will talk about in in other talks
as well and this one is also interesting
we're also building a file coin GUI that
will enable a broader set of users to
engage with file coin using familiar
user interfaces like Dropbox and Google
Drive type of storage experiences we've
learned obviously that you know web 3
products can actually be really
intimidating to users who are new to the
space so this is our attempt to lower
that barrier to entry and inspire
delight and some of our early file coin
users I think we're also going to give
lightning talk on this one later today
but this product is also interesting and
I think there's some some cool
opportunities for paying services to
leverage these these types of gooeys as
dashboards too exposed to their users
said choose to use file coin storage
all of these products and many more are
going to be live within the next few
months and just a reminder that you know
while the file open ecosystem is vibrant
and growing this is just the beginning
and especially within the world of
pinning services and other
infrastructure that ties into file
coin.if so early there are so many
opportunities this space is super wide
open and we're really excited to start
working with mission aligned developers
who are looking to join the ecosystem
and start building now and that's all
thank you for that introduction so later
today we're gonna we're gonna go into
exploring the kinds of integrations that
are possible there's another timeslot
dedicated to kind of going in detail
into what referral mining is how it
works how you might pin to and from file
coins so if you're an activist spinning
service how you might either use five
underneath the hood or reverse get deals
from falcone and sort and pin for the
taco network then and we'll see other
kinds of kinds of ways of integrating
what I wanted to do with the remaining
many time here was kind of talk a little
bit about the the characteristics of
storage mining and retrieval mining in
Falcon as they relate to painting
services in terms of kind of the the
space of the space of possibility and
kind of what I mean is looking at these
kinds of graphs we're understanding what
the what the kind of characteristics of
those parties in the network are really
has like this amazing overlap with what
pending services do today and so that
means that being those parties is is
potentially like a strong business
opportunity for for us pending services
so kind of on the on the as an example
on the left side it's kind of like a
graph of cost of storage over time
graphed against retrieval latency of
data and so this is kind of like a
normal way of representing this where we
can see things like glacier and s3
mapped out there and so
the those are actually quite wide
because greater for example has
different different feature levels and
so certain kinds of paying and certain
kinds of of levels can get you you still
pay the same amount for for storing in
the long term but when you pay a
different amount for retrieval and you
end up getting it in different very
different time scales so you know as low
as a few minutes to as high as many
hours if three is a lot more more narrow
and kind of most most cleaning services
today kind of match the the cost spans
of the latency bands of that because
that is a being kind of like the sweet
spot of what most cloud storage is doing
right so it's kind of the green box here
that says penny services that's roughly
kind of like where most cloud storage
sits so things like s3 Google cloud
objects and and so on the and then you
can see kind of like a CDN so quiet I
mapped cloud cloud front here which is
which is also a double yeses and and of
course everything would like to be as
cheap as possible and fast as possible
right so there's some kind of magical
ideal that we can't quite reach but
where everything is kind of trying to go
and and everything is sort of a
trade-off you can you can either spend
more money and potentially go faster or
you can you can try to have a more
cost-effective service and go slower and
of course as advances in technology
happen we can kind of chip away at this
at this kind of frontier and get closer
and closer to the ideal and so the what
I want to represent here is is this
interesting overlap that that are the
that I realized a few a few weeks ago
which is that currently right pinning
services are perfectly positioned to be
about the best retrieval miners in the
Falco Network and so what we're two old
miners are are this this kind of class
of service where the the main role is to
keep content really kind of hot meaning
able to be retrieved very quickly where
kind of latency really really matters
but not that much content so think of
you know in the orders of of a few
bytes which is roughly around the size
of what most building services are doing
and so that's and so for a lot of the
FAQ when use cases we're we're gonna be
storing petabytes impediments and stuff
we can't keep all of that that that hot
and then there and there's a kind of a
weird reason why storage - here in in
this graph in the in in blue actually
can't retrieve faster like what wide
resource - take so long - to retrieve
and that's a that's a feature of the of
the proofs that we're using we're just
it falls out of the cryptography where
there's a very expensive operation - to
do on top of the data to make sure that
the parties do have it and if you want
to be able to get the data you have to
effectively decrypt it out and that
takes some time as advances in the
proofs happen storage miners are going
to be able to inch you know further and
further left it's still with with around
the same kind of cost costs other they
have but ideally being able to - to
provide a much faster service once those
kinds of proofs are in place but at
least for the beginning of the network
and probably for the next six to twelve
months really fast delivery is going to
be done through retrieval miners of
which I think that the ipfs spending
services are like the best positioned
group to be to just come basically like
all owned most of that service because
it because the the it's the right amount
of data is like the right size of data
and the right speed and so one of the
things to think about is is it's also
kind of where we expect these things to
move over time so of course it's kind of
super speculative it's not not clear at
all but it's likely that with with
significant cost reductions in in the
proofs that we're doing or the or less
speeds it's likely the storage miners
could actually be serving things out in
in hundreds of milliseconds in
sub-second maybe maybe they won't get to
like the massive cost reductions that we
hope for but it but it is possible and
so we're gonna see kind of storage
miners inching inching towards the left
over the over the coming years
at the same time for two miners we
wonder if you'll manage to be moving
towards closer and closer to the user to
reach certain certain capabilities that
modern CDNs don't have so modern CDNs
kind of stop at the at the ISP level but
it's likely there were two old miners
the following can be you know other
people you know your neighbors in in
storing data and serving it to you very
quickly from either that next house over
or potentially a different apartment
building or a different apartment the
same building it's that kind of edge
level of of delivery isn't really it
doesn't really exist yet and so we hope
that over the next few years we can you
know that's two months to two maybe
couple years we can build that out and
we can see like truly a CDN that greets
us all the way as close to the user so
we kind of expect both of these groups
to start inching left at some point is
this transition where it's actually
going to be cheap enough for pinning
services to be storage miners so right
now I said cheap enough because being a
really good storage miner in fact going
today the sweet spot economically you
want to basically have petabytes of
storage and kind of this expensive
ceiling ceiling equipment and and that's
just not what pinning services do right
now that's a totally different business
but but as we improve the proofs and a
storage - kind of inch all the way to
the left it's likely that pitting
services could then drop into being
being storage miners directly so it's
kind of like an interesting interesting
feature that fell out of of we're kind
of pitting services are now and where we
expect these these these these groups to
go of course this is extremely difficult
to do the lines are Amazon and Amazon is
one of the strongest organizations to
being able to optimize things so a lot
of this is still like we'll see what
happens but kind of the big the bigger
thesis of Falcone is that a market can
operate much better than than a
centrally planned
centered plan economy and so we'll see
if the path or miners are able to get
the same kind of cost reductions let's
say Bitcoin miners God with with all of
the hardware installations and they go
great so the this is kind of another way
of visualizing is on the same data which
is on the left is sort of the diagram
that
Google cloud uses to describe its kind
of core data centers and then like the
edge caching and so on and you can think
of think of that as like the storage
miners in the center and then kind of
the ritual - at the edges I'm kind of
very well geographically distributed and
with low latency delivery - to the user
so so I think that right now there is a
kind of significant economic opportunity
for forum for pending services that go
into into virtual fuel mining and then
end up building a service where really
fast delivery of the content on the upon
on and this is basically just C IDs
right so this is C IDs on on I confess
which is exactly what what uh what
retrieval I'm sorry what penny started
doing today but it just tweaks what data
you store so instead of storing data
instead of having an agreement with a
user long-term and storing their data
and serving it out only it's it's more
about understanding what the network is
trying to retrieve at this point in time
fetching that and and redistributing
that so it's kind of a it's like tweak
but it's it's right in the in the sweet
spot of of the of the architecture that
you currently have all right I'm gonna
stop there and hopefully this talk has
given given a lot of giving you a lot of
ideas we run a bit over time but I'm
gonna make it up in the in the pinning
okay I talked except thank you